### OBJECTIVE

This Telegram connector extends from the [Chatbot API Connector](https://github.com/inbenta-integrations/chatbot_api_connector) library. This library includes a Telegram API Client in order to send messages to Telegram users through Telegram API. It translates Telegram's messages into the Inbenta Chatbot API format and vice versa. Also, it implements some methods from the base HyperChat client in order to communicate with Telegram when the user is chatting.

### FUNCTIONALITIES
This connector inherits the functionalities from the `ChatbotConnector` library. Currently, the features provided by this application are:

* Simple answers
* Multiple options
* Polar questions
* Chained answers
* Content ratings (yes/no + comment)
* Escalate to HyperChat after a number of no-results answers
* Escalate to HyperChat when matching with an 'Escalation FAQ'
* Send information to webhook through forms

### HOW TO CUSTOMIZE

**Custom Behaviors**

If you need to customize the bot flow, you need to modify the class `TelegramConnector.php`. This class extends from the ChatbotConnector and here you can override all the parent methods.


### STRUCTURE

The `TelegramConnector` folder has some classes needed to use the ChatbotConnector with Telegram. These classes are used in the TelegramConnector constructor in order to provide the application with the components needed to send information to Telegram and to parse messages between Telegram, ChatbotAPI and HyperChat.

**External API folder**

Inside this folder there is the Telegram API client which allows the bot to send messages and handle authorization events.


**External Digester folder**

This folder contains the class TelegramDigester. This class is a kind of "translator" between the Chatbot API and Telegram. Mainly, the work performed by this class is to convert a message from the Chatbot API into a message accepted by the Telegram API. It also does the inverse work, translating messages from Telegram into the format required by the Chatbot API.


**HyperChat API**

The class `TelegramHyperChatClient` instantiates a Telegram client from the `external_id` parameter provided by HyperChat. This parameter is generated by the external client and passed to HyperChat when the chat is created. This parameter allows us to instantiate a new Telegram client from Telegram user_id that is extracted from the external_id:
```php
    //Instances an external client
    protected function instanceExternalClient($externalId, $appConf){
        $TelegramId = TelegramAPIClient::getIdFromExternalId($externalId);
        $externalClient = new TelegramAPIClient($appConf->get('external.token'));
        $externalClient->setSenderFromId( $TelegramId );
        return $externalClient;
    }
```

This class extends from the class `HyperChatClient` that extends from the default HyperChatClient provided by the product team, and all the parent methods can be overwritten.
